Textbooks should be replaced by computers and online resources.

Every manual work is trying to be automated in this techno world. Computers and internet has reached every nook and corner of this world.
In this fast moving world we need an upgrade in education methodologies also.

In my opinion , books have no substitute I believe when we talk about Education. But we are living in technology world where everything is technologic. The potential substitute of textbooks is laptops, tablets and notebooks which are compact, light and are easy in use. Every year four billion trees are cut down for making papers, notebooks, and workbooks and by practicing laptops in our schools, universities, we can get more clean and fresh air as there would be no more cut down of trees.

Every year government spends huge amount on replacing textbooks as per changing of syllabus and content. With the help of laptops, publishers and teachers would be able to update contents easily and more quickly. Students should be able to use laptops instead of workbooks as It would be helpful for them and environment too. They can have up to date information, furthermore, using laptops is far more convenient than buying costly books. Students can do their homework’s and assignments on one single device. Security measures to protect laptops from viruses, and malwares and malicious websites, should be done. There should be some kind of software’s to avoid theft and easily recovery of your data. If students really want to replace textbooks with computer notebooks, they will have to show responsibility also.

Pros and cons of everything are always there, if we talk about life time of laptops, tablets and computer notebooks, their battery life is very low. All these electronic things demand electricity. And the country we are living in, the main crises is of electricity. The other factor is data loss, in any case if the windows or any file get corrupt or virus come in your computer, you can lose all of your work. Third factor is theft, if you get your laptop stolen, you will be having nothing in your hand. Somehow it is a sensitive but complex issue.

The views about use of the Internet are however more diverse. In comparison with textbooks, Internet sites can offer up to date and valuable information. Textbooks only have essential theory while the internet can provide good sources of examples and also make project work easier. Besides all these positive aspects of internet, there are also some concerns that information on internet could be unreliable, and the websites may have malwares which can corrupt your data files easily and sites may disappear, and students may waste their time on internet by using face book, twitter, and other time wasting websites.

Personally I find it easier to read on my textbook, as you can read it anywhere, to read from books you don’t need electricity to recharge it, hence you don’t need internet all the time.
